= HongoScripts version 2 =



== Required programs ==
To fully use the capability of HongoScripts, install the following programs.

*cmake
*ruby
*zsh
*wget
*heasoft
*root
*mactex
*pdftk
*pdfcrop

== Install on Mac ==
Homebrew allows you to easily install HongoScripts.
Do the following in the Terminal.app.

1. Install Homebrew. Skip if already installed.
<pre>
ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.github.com/mxcl/homebrew/go/install)"
</pre>

2. Tap yuasatakayuki/hxisgd and install HongoScripts.
<pre>
brew tap yuasatakayuki/hxisgd
brew install hongoscripts
</pre>

3. Test if successfully installed.
<pre>
hsFullpath .
(this will show the full path of your current directory)
(if it does not work, installation seems failed. check the output of the brew command)
</pre>


== To use Suzaku Analaysis Scripts ==
Before using Suzaku Analysis Scripts such as hsSuzakuGoHXDPointSource and hsSuzakuGoXISPointSource, please set the environment variable RUBYLIB properly to include the directory where HongoScripts/ruby is installed.
When installed using Homebrew, the path should be set as follows: 
<pre>
export RUBYLIB=/usr/local/lib/ruby:$RUBYLIB
</pre>
in your shell initialization file ($HOME/.zshrc or $HOME/.bashrc). 

When installaed as a folder (i.e. without make install), set something like:
<pre>
export PATH=path_to/HongoScripts/bin:$PATH
export RUBYLIB=path_to/HongoScripts/ruby:$RUBYLIB
</pre>


== History ==
*20080620 created
*20080620 getheader.sh setheader.sh exposure.sh areascal.sh backscal.sh
*20080620 instrume.sh
*20080818 copy pdftkall, ps2pdfall, chrun, mkxsp_result.sh from ~/bin
*20140623 updated to version 2 (with cmake-install support and new naming convention)
